---
date: 2025-09-17
tags:
  -
hubs:
  - "[[]]"
urls:
  -
---
# 2025-09-17_.Net-Core-Fundamentals---Intermediate-language

The C# compiler (named Roslyn) used by the `dotnet` CLI tool converts your C# source code into *intermediate* language (IL) code and stores the IL in an assembly (a DLL or EXE file). IL code statements are like assembly language instructions, which are executed by .NET's virtual machine, known as CoreCLR, the newer name for the *Common Language Runtime (CLR)* in modern .NET. The legacy .NET Framework has a CLR that is Windows-only, and modern  .NET has one for each OS, like Windows, macOS, and Linux. These days, they are all commonly referred to as CLRs.

At runtime, CoreCLR loads the IL code from the assembly, the just-in-time (JIT) compiler compiles it into native CPU instructions, and then it is executed by the CPU on your machine.

The benefit of this two-step compilation process is that Microsoft can create CLRs for Linux and macOS, as well as for Windows. The same IL code runs everywhere because of the second compilation step, which generates code for the native operating system and CPU instruction set.

Regardless of which language the source code is written in (for example, C#, Visual Basic, of F#), all .NET applications use IL code for their instructions stored in an assembly. Microsoft and others provide disassembler tools that can open an assembly and reveal this IL code, such as the ILSpy .NET Decompiler extension. You will learn more about it in Chapter 7, Packaging and Distributing .NET Types, in an online section found at the following link: https://github.com/markjprice/cs13net9/blob/main/docs/ch07-decompiling.md.

So, the compilation process typically involves translating source code into IL, which is then compiled into machine code at runtime by the CLR using JIT compilation. Ahead-of-Time (AOT) compilation is an alternative to this approach, and you will learn about it in Chapter 7, Packaging and Distributing .NET Types.

## Comparing .NET technologies

Technology      Description                         Host operating systems

Modern .NET     A modern feature set, with full C#  Windows, macOS, Linux, Android
                8 to C# 13 language support. It can iOS, tvOS, and Tizen
                be used to port existing apps or
                create new desktop, mobile, and web
                apps and services.

.NET            A legacy feature set with limited   Windows only
Framework       C# 8 support and no C# 9 or later
                support. It should be used to 
                maintain existing applications only.

Xamarin         Mobile and desktop apps only.       Android, iOS, macOS
