---
date: 2025-10-03
tags:
  - command-line
hubs:
  - "[[csharp]]"
urls:
  -
---
# 2025-10-03_System.CommandLine-overview

- It's currently in preview. This documentation is for version 2.0 beta 7.

The `System.CommandLine` library provides functionality commonly neede by command-line apps, such as parsing command-line input and displaying help text.

Apps that use `System.CommandLine` include the .NET CLI, additional tools, and many global and local tools.

For app developers, the library:
- Lets you focus on writing your app code, since you don't have to write code to parse command-line input or produce a help page.
- Lets you test app code indenpendently of input parsing code.
- Is trim-friendly, making it a good choice for developing fast, lightweight, AOT-capable CLI apps.

Use of the library also benefits app users:
- it ensures that command-line input is parsed consistently according to POSIX or Windows conventions.
- It automatically supports tab completion and response files.

## Tutorial: Get started with System.CommandLine
In this tutorial, you will learn how to:
- Create commands, options and arguments
- Specify default values for options
- Assign options and arguments to commands
- Assign an option recursively to all subcommands under a command
- Work with multiple levels of nested subcommands
- Create aliases for commands and options
- Work with `string`, `string[]`, `int`, `bool`, `FileInfo`, and enum option types.
- Read option values in command action code.
- Use custom code for parsing and validating options.

### Prerequisites
- The latest SDK
- Visual Studio Code edito
- The C# DevKit

### Create the app
1. Create a folder name _scl_ for the project, and then open a command prompt int the new folder.
2. Run the following command:
```cs
dotnet new console --framework net9.0
```
